So we've added who created in this case, our weather API or interface say that this is going to be
used internally by retrofit.
So where is this retrofit thing?
Where is it it and how do we do that?
Well, the beauty again, is that we are going to use or you've been using the dye dependency injection.
That means that instead of a dye module here, this is where we are going to create those providers
that will allow for that dependency injection that we're talking about, which means we can then initialize
certain classes or providers or dependencies that the app will need in the background to set everything
up for us.
But before we do that, we need to say at module to make sure that is indeed is a dagger module.
And then I'm going to also say at install in dagger like this and want to just pass a singleton component
that class like this to set this up module class.
So inside here, like I said, it's where we set up all the app modules.
The margins that are needed across the entire application to create things such as databases in this
case are also repositories.
Anything else that we need that we know we need across the entire application that we can create, instantiate
the providers here, which then any part of the app can access it.
So what we want to do?
Well, we want to create a provider, a way of providing the open weather API.
So in this case, do you think she'd retrofit so we can use the base URL in past this weather API that
we created to rid of all this?
So use our weather API and so forth.
So very simply, because it's down all we do look at this, I'm going to say at.
Provides might to say that dagger is going to provide the following statement or function and elsewhere
make this a singleton.
And then when I say funds, they provide notice the naming right.
Remember, we're not going to use this function directly.
Dagger and hilt dependency, module dependency and everything in the background.
It is what is going to get this information.
This function called is this function a background in creating this dependency for us, right?
Let's say provide open whether API, something like this.
And of course, it's going to be instantiating or it's going to be invoking the weather API because
that's what we need, right?
Section.
And then that's what I'm going to return.
In this case, I invoke the retrofit.
Now I know that this is working because we have added a dependency.
If you don't see that retrofit, then you know that dependency didn't.
You didn't add a dependency.
So go back to the previous video where I show you how to add there's dependencies or just go to the
repo and get those dependencies.
Very important, right?
That then builder.
And then I'm going to continue adding a few things to our retrofit built here.
First of all, we need a base URL.
Hmm.
Where do we get that?
Well, we get it from a constants.
Remember our constants?
Obviously, there get the base URL.
Very good.
Next, I'm going to add a converter factory.
This is important because retrofit needs to also convert all of that information.
All of this JSON that we're getting here into actual objects that can be taken and used as objects in
the sense Kotlin objects.
Right.
So it's important to add this adapter factory, which we can use by saying JSON
converter factory like that.
And say that create right and then got built, and then that's I forget to say, create in order to
create, we need to pass a a model class per se, which is our weather API, so it knows exactly what
to do when we are creating this provide open weather API like that.
This has to be added convertor.
There we go.
Factory like this.
This way was giving me some issues.
And there you go again.
We are not ourselves going to call this provide open weather API dagger and hilt in the background.
Once we build and run this, it will know to create all the classes that it needs to create this dependency
to create a retrofit, all the glasses in the playground that needs to be used by retrofit so that we
can then in conjunction with our weather API here, to be able then to say, get weather and pass all
of these parameters of the squares and indeed get this information here.
As I have to add, there will be converted into JSON object, which essentially is going to be this
case.
Codling objects, right?
So it's going to map everything with these object models that we created earlier there.
That is the beauty of retrofit.
And, of course, this case dependency injection with hilt and dagger.
OK, so we have a wrap module, weather app API.
Life is good.
So.
It's time for us to look at the repository, although repositories are not necessary, but it's always
a good idea to have repositories because then we can have a one single source of truth.
Right, where we have this layer of data where we can get from different places.
So it's a nice structural settings for especially when you're putting together or trying to get data.
So when you create a repository here, it's just a class repository.
Why such?
Very well.
So what is our weather repository going to do well or whether we're positive we're going to do is it's
going to allow us to get the data.
But where from?
Well, it's going to allow us to get data from our directly from our let's go to our network, our weather
API, which means we are going to want to have access to this get weather in this case to implement
this, get weather function here, which incidentally, as you see, it's part of a retrofit.
So when we call this retrofit, we'll know how to handle it because we'll ask for query units if need
be updates already retrieved or added.
And then we're going to return to a weather object, which again, if you remember.
Yes, it's all of this payload.
So you can see all these building blocks coming together, hopefully.
All right.
We can't just get rid of that real quick here.
So now what do we need to do?
This is where the dependency injection really works, because now I can say at inject, it can inject
certain dependencies.
They injected such a constructor.
We're going to see private valve.
And it's going to be our API, which is our weather API as such.
And so now I have access this API, which is our weather API so I can have access to indeed.
So we can't have access to the weather API again if you go back.
We have access to this.
Get weather.
Huh.
Very good.
So what do we do inside here, where this is, where we do the work and this is where we actually get
the weather?
It's not going to create another suspend function and because they get whether it can name whatever
we want, but it's always customary to name the same names.
So there is consistency there.
And then here I'm going to pass a city, right?
I'm going to say, city query this and it's going to be a string and then say units.
He's also going to be a string that suffices for now.
And what is that I'm going to expect to receive?
This is the question.
Well, what I'm going to be expecting to receive, obviously, it's going to be a whether object.
So I can say whether object as we created earlier.
That's fine.
But we want something more elaborate because we want to be able to wrap this, whether object into something
a little bit more than just a way of their object.
What I mean by that is because we want to make sure that as this object, we get this whether object
to this payload, we want to make sure to also add other metadata like downloading if it's loading,
if there's an exception and so forth.
So what are we going to do is we're going to create yet another class, right, another wrapper class
in our data here.
It's very simple.
And I'm going to call this data or exception.
And the reason, like I said, is because we want to always be able to have a class that we can add
more information regarding the process, which networking in this case and when we are dealing with
the receiving data from someone else.
Right.
Internet or database or file and so forth.
So it's always a good idea to wrap, create a wrapper class such as this, or we can pass information
more than just that information that we are receiving.
So this is going to include some generics, you know, generics.
It's a huge topic.
The idea is that I'm going to make this class so general in a sense that we can pass any type we want.
So we are going to use T as a template and then Boolean such and the E for exception.
So what does that really mean?
Well, it means that for our parameters here, I'm going to wait for data.
It's going to be of type T that we are passing and can be null.
It also means that our VAR I can pass a loading parameter here, which is going to be a Boolean type,
whether it's loading or not.
And this can also be null.
Aha and I can pass another e for exception just e like that.
And it can also be null like this.
OK.
And that's all.
And I don't even need to have a body.
So that just means now if I wrap anything with our data or exception, I can pass.
In this case, T could be whether object could be Pallo as an object could be James and so forth.
And you can pass a Boolean.
It will be interpreted as the loading this case.
If it's true, that means it's floating, if not true, that mean it's not loading and so forth.
So data, now it's going to be whatever we pass as a T here.
Whether object has a set or anything else, exception is going to be e going to pass as our arguments
and so forth.
So now instead of having this, I'm going to wrap this inside of our data or exception like that, which
means I can now say for our data here, I'm going to pass over whether object and which is pass any
boolean for loading and press exception that we may get.
Of course, we have a little problem here because we have to return something.
All right.
So now we do the work.
So I'm going to say, Val responds, We're expecting put that inside of a try.
There's a catch because things could happen.
This is going to be an exception.
And what do we do here, inside?
Well, inside here.
All I have to do.
Look how beautiful I'm going to invoke the weather API, which I have access to because I'm doing using
the dependency injection we are.
We have injected the app weather API, which knows how to get data through retrofit.
Wonderful.
I say API as such and when I say get weather passed, the query which is a string, what do I get?
That is just a silly query like this.
And then if something happens, sometimes things happen here, I'm going to say return data.
Look at this inside here, I'm going to for our E, which is indeed the exception.
I'm going to say it is going to be equal to E, which is the exception.
Now I am loading our data or exception wrapper class inside of this values you variable or argument
e for exceptions are going to have the exception we receive if something happens and elsewhere to return
data.
Or exception, you know, when I pass inside of our data, which accepts the type, which is our response.
And this works because the response is indeed whether object that it's needed.
Right, data response.
There we go.
Does that make sense?
So now we've gained a lot notice that we can overload or add other metadata, and we need like exception.
There it is.
And we had a data response.
So now when we get call, when we get to call, get whether we're going to expect this type, which
will potentially hopefully have the whether object.
But most importantly, also we have the bullion an exception, if need be.
It's not that we have a repository we could call directly and get that information, but what are we
going to do?
We're going to call or create a view model because that's how we treat our data.
We want to use a view model to get that information onto our user interface.
Now where do we use our review model?
Well, what do we create their view model?
Well, our review model is going to be inside of our screens.
For now, I'm just going to create instead remain here.
Create a new view model.
It's just a class call, main view model.
And it's important to remember that this few model, it's important to say it's a hilt with a model
like that because we will need to do a few other things I say at also inject because we need what we
need to repository remember.
So constructor.
Sort of publicly.
Just get rid of that.
I make sure this is indeed a fuel model.
The problem is that I made this a Java class, OK?
My bad?
Let's just get rid of that altogether.
She be more careful.
Let's create codling class.
Here we go.
It's a class main view model.
There we go.
Make sure that is indeed a hilt view model.
It's very important now should work something.
See at inject.
OK, constructor private val
repository where the repository such and let's not forget that this is indeed.
A few Model T view model and or life cycle like that.
OK, so now here what we do is we create a structure that will allow us to get the information we want.
So first, I'm going to create a file called data.
And this is going to be a mutable.
State type of data or exception, exceptionally, it's going to be a very long, but it's OK, it's
going to be a weather type object, let's say, right, because we need to have that.
It's going to be a Boolean pass, an exception like this.
And then we're going to set it to something.
So it's going to be immutable state of and here I, you say, data or exception.
And just pass the say no for the object, true for loading, an exception which is going to create a
simple exception.
Here it six.
And and passing something like that.
This immutable state mutable state of all right.
There we go.
So what I'm doing here, creating a variable that's going to be the correct type, right, which is
data or exception.
You know, have to initialize it.
But most importantly, we also wrap it around immutable state.
It is.
It has to be a state variable.
Right next, I'm going to create the next block there, and I'm going to call load, whether it's go
ahead and create function load, whether and this load, whether all is going to do is call, get weather
and pass, for instance, Seattle and we haven't created that either.
It's going to create that to bottom there.
I could see it.
Well, this is going to require a few model scope because we need that because we're going to be calling
a suspend function, view, model, scope, invoke, launch and inside here.
I can say.
If City, that we passing that is empty, right, then just going to return nothing.
OK, now another case when, say, data that value and what I said to loading to true, to say it is
floating ha and then data that value.
OK.
When a use repository, look at this and get whether and then when it passed city query when it passed
the city as such.
And I can say if data here that value that data began to get inside and get, let's say, to string.
Is not empty.
Then once the data that value that loading.
Is false.
And of course, I'm with you logged here just to show you that something is happening, hopefully.
Let's see.
Data and value and data again to a string just to get the whole payload.
They get four attack soap did a lot of things we came to view model here.
We created a data object that's immutable state wrapped around a dinner or exception and so forth.
We instantiate that has to be middle immutable say of and then we have a neat block here which calls
out which calls load weather, which in turn here.
And that's where we get the repository call get weather passed.
The query, which is the seed in this case, Seattle, right here.
We do all the work.
So what's happening also is that we are using the data this got here mutable, and we're setting a few
things that we're saying that the loading Boolean is going to be true to say that it's loading.
So in our front end, in our view, we can also look at it and say, OK, it's loading, which means
we can show something to the user to let them know that something is loading, right?
And that is being fetched.
And then we're going to go and actually fetch data so and set out to our data that value added value
in this case is going to be this guy here object.
Right.
We're setting things up in our upper class.
And we check if there is empty.
That means we the loading is finished, so loading is false, which means we can just get out of there
and we're now just going to go ahead and see if we can get some data from our object.
Right in log it very well, so hopefully we did everything right in the next video, we're going to
explore or call this main view model there and see if we can get some information.